---
title: "What did I do in 2024?"
date: 2024-12-28T14:53:34-05:00
draft: true
---
I got my masters degree going to school part-time in 2023. I spent around 250 hours per year on grad school, so when I finished in December of 2023 I wrote this down for my 2024 new year's resolution:

"We have around 200 hours of extra time thanks to no grad school. That should be enough for like 2 new hobbies or a few new games".

So what did I end up doing in 2024? Did I pick up new hobbies? Did I make a few more games than I made in 2023?

TODO make each of these sections meatier

## Boss Rush Jam 2024
I spent 78 hours in the month of January on my BossRushJam entry. This was my first 3D game, so it involved learning blender and also making Love2D work with 3D graphics. I had to write a GLTF file reader and skeletal skinned mesh renderer all from the ground-up.

## TODO categorize these thoughts
I'm really glad I'm still 'tracking my time'. I don't really care about the productivity aspect of this anymore. Instead, it's really nice to look back on the year and just count the number of hours I spent working on cool stuff.

Here's a breakdown of what I spent my free time on this year:

- 78 hours of working on my BossRushJam2024 entry
- 76 hours of working on my Metroidvania Month 26 entry
- 34 hours working on my LowRezJam2024 entry
- 32 hours of drawabox (Lesson 1 and the first 45 boxes of the 250 box challenge)
- 38 hours of 'free' drawing
- 25 hours of piano (not including composing for games)
- 10 hours of working on a fully custom (SDL-backed) engine for an unfinished metroidvania in C
- 9 hours of working on a little twin-stick shooter that I was hoping to develop for Poki or other web portals
- 6 hours working on a small soulslike in Love2D (unfinished)
- 6 hours working on a deckbuilder-twinstick hybrid in Pico 8 (unfinished)
- 5 hours writing a tiny compiler that compiles Basic into C or Lua

Obviously the above doesn't add up to a full year's worth of free time - I spent a lot of free time playing video games, watching TV, watching youtube, playing sports, spending time with my fiance, playing with my cat, etc.

I wanted to reflect on each of the above.

## I released 3 games this year! It took me 188 hours!
I'm incredibly proud of the 3 games I actually released this year.

### BATTLESC4RS - I can do 3D now
Battlesc4rs unlocked my brain. Since I can do 3D with Love2D, the world is basically my oyster now, I'm the king crab and the world is my clam if you will.

Battlesc4rs reminded me that I play piano (!) and that I can use it for gamedev. It also reminded me how much I love writing stuff from the ground up. Writing that GLTF file reader and animator was so satisfying - I really need to commit to my 'custom engine' era someday. I tried that out later this past year, where I tried making a metroidvania purely in C with SDL, but I ended up putting that on hold while I worked on my Metroidvania Month entry.

Anyway, Battlesc4rs showed me that 3D isn't so scary! I can make a soulslike now if I like!

### Clash Mastery - Getting out of a creative rut
I had some health issues this summer, so I wasn't really able to do much from May to August. Coming out of those health issues, I just wanted to make *anything*, and the LowRezJam is one of the few jams that feels perfectly in the center of my wheelhouse.

Clash Mastery was me proving to myself that I can still make games. I felt super distant from gamedev up until Clash Mastery, but it felt like once I released that game, I'd unclogged the drain. I was back to prototyping random ideas and coding every night again.

### Metroidvania Month - The next big thing (clickbait)
I play a TON of metroidvanias. I can't believe I've never tried to make one until now. This jam was probably the most fun I've had with gamedev in years, and I've had a LOT of fun these past few years so that's saying something.

I'm excited to work on my MVM entry some more over the next few months. I originally thought I'd give myself another 2 months to finish this game, but we'll see. I'm still having fun working on it, and the time will pass anyway whether I work on it or not.

Building a big map and just filling it with every idea that crosses your mind is the best kind of scope creep. It feels like there's a perfect spot for every single idea. I could probably work on this game for the rest of my life if I wanted to.

## Bringing my drawing wisdom to gamedev
I've been drawing more this past year. I know I only reported 70 hours of drawing, but that's all in the last few months (from August to December). There was a point where I was drawing every other night for about an hour.

I'm still not good at drawing, but I've re-learned a skill that I had back when I was a kid through drawing: Deriving joy purely from execution.

Most of my drawings are bad, and some are terrible. Back when I was practicing drawing in 2022, it was a pretty exhausting process. I'd pick someone's face (usually someone in my family) and try to draw it. Then, I'd look at the result, be horrified, and give up for the night (after around an hour of mucking about trying to fix it).

Nowadays, I start a timer and just draw whatever comes into my head. Maybe it's cool, maybe it's weird, but it'll probably look bad. Then, when the timer finishes, I close my sketchbook and pat myself on the back for doing the thing I said I'd do that night. Then I do it again the next night!

It's gotten to the point where I can derive joy purely from the act of moving my pencil across the page - just from drawing simple lines and shapes.

Working on my MVM entry felt similarly: There was a point where I stopped caring about how the game would be received and just let the content flow from my fingertips. The act of typing in code for a new boss, or scratching away at my tablet on new animations, or dragging shapes of tiles across the map editor, all of it was pleasurable in and of itself.

I used to do most of my hobbies like this, in middle school. I'd play whatever I wanted on piano. I'd get joy from learning some complicated fugue part, knowing that no one (aside from my teacher) would ever appreciate the accomplishment. It was purely the act of pressing my fingers to the keys and hearing that the sounds were what I had intended that gave me joy.

## I drew a decent amount!
